#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

[NewRecruits Plan] to identify, recruit, train and retain talented people


= Details =

==Need to Improve==

If we continue do what we've been doing then we will get what we've been getting. If we don't improve (leap) then we will be in the same state. Identifying, recruiting and training people is a key function.

Recruitment is very important in this knowledge-based domain, people are THE KEY resources. 

We are in the business of making software- and people's brain are raw material.  Raw material management is key in any business getting the right quality at the right price. Otherwise however many times you try- the end product is not going to get any quality if you start with inferior quality raw material. 2 bright brains combine and form more than 2 brains -  probably it's 2.5 bright brain 

==Hiring Strategy==


HCL in the early years, went around all the polytechnics (govt + other good ones) to get young people and trained them hard. This strategy has got 2 merits

1) We do get quality people from polytechnic- lots of bright students join polytechnic due to economical conditions

2) We have large pool of people to select from - and once we train them - they usually don't leave, because almost all the big companies need BE or MCA

We need to have a plan to recruit. We need to make sure that the company is not a shop that any one can walk (through referrals - of-course) and join. If we set some standards in recruiting, whoever get employed will value the company bit more.

We will get what we look for - like searching gold from the sand. We need to have 2 or 3 filtering system. Start with big pool- send the word out to as many colleges/polytechnic as possible.

Jack welch says, In GE, they identify 10% bottom performers from each team and let them go. 20% top performers are actively motivated and celebrated, 70% midlevel performers are retained, 10% just go. Every year that is a must. In the initial years identifying the bottom 10% is easy, as time went on, it became difficult still they persisted.

If you want the best team in the world, it should have both the components
recruit aggressively and also have a system to drop people who dont fit in, cant adapt.
business changes, the guy who joined 5 years back was a good fit back then. now company has moved on, for some reason he is not able to change and contribute effectively
law of averages will say at-least some part of your workforce will be in that position. they might be better of finding a job else where, where they can perform better. To do this we need to have a continuous infusion of fresh people into the company.

That will create some uneasy feelings to the other employees - even the best ones? and social aspect of letting some one go off also?

That un-easyness could be positive also. everyone tries to learn new things, be close to the market, adapt to changes. when the company is successful, we can afford to let them leave in a friendly manner. Good severance package, assistance in finding another job.
they are smart people anyway, otherwise we would not have recruited them. But times and business change, they should be able to adapt. (that is Jack Welch's theory anyway). It is a little early for us to discuss it.

We need to have a strong recruitment system in place, before talking about how to identify the low performers.

If you demonstrate that you care even if you ask him/her to leave - In GE they could do it, since the company is so big and profitable, they can afford to be generous.


==Specific Steps==

Delight the prospective employees by paying them reasonable amount of salary and make all the arrangements to settle in the new place like Chennai.

Stock-option should be a must - for startups like ours - to compensate for the disparity in the salary. Spend as much time recruiting as selling. 

There are untapped potential out there - go out - make a speech - get the buy in - make them to believe in us - we will reward them big at the end, the end may be 5 or 6 years from now

We need to design the reward system so that the right (and bright) people are attracted, and they believe in us, and they want to stay with us longer

1) The candidate must have atleast 80% minimum
2) must have 85% in SSLC or in HSC
3)  must be willing to learn new things - must be hungry for knowledge

Chennai and surroundings should be starting point. But whatever we do, we must commit ourselves to be THE BEST ERP for the leather industry- the focus to be that we should be the ERP for leather as "search" is for "google"